>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And welcome
back to another edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory, and we're
talking with the remote viewer
and the author of "Reading
the Enemy's Mind,"
Paul Smith, who in
our first program
brought us some enlightening
facts about remote viewing.
Paul, it's
fascinating, really is.
>>PAUL SMITH: I'll
tell you what,
I think there's not a more
exciting topic present today
in the world.
>>NOORY: Now how do you
distinguish the difference
between remote viewing
and, let's say, intuition?
Or is it the same?
>>SMITH: Well, I think
that the engine that
makes them both run, the
underlying human faculty that
makes them both work,
is probably the same.
They probably emerged
from the same source.
Remote viewing is
different than intuition
in that it's a more formalized,
structured approach to-- you
might say it's even almost
applied intuition, applied
and directed intuition.
>>NOORY: Have you ever had a
remote viewing session that
scared the living
daylights out of you?
>>SMITH: I have not
had any that scared me,
but I've had some
the disturbed me.
>>NOORY: Aha.
Can you tell us about them?
>>SMITH: Yes.
One of them-- of course, a
lot of what I have to tell you
are things that I
experienced while I
was a remote viewer
with the military.
One that sticks with me
to this day is the target,
it turned out-- of course
as a remote viewer,
you're not supposed
to know what target
is-- so the target,
it turned out,
was an accident in a biological
research facility in the Soviet
Union that we'd got
wind that had happened.
They wanted to see if
they could get some more
information about what occurred.
And so all of us in the
military remote viewing unit
had been targeted on
this particular event.
And my experience was--
we went down there.
It felt like it was
underground-- turned out
it was.
There were these corridors.
It was very institutional,
almost you might say,
1950s, in the way
the United States
institutional architecture was.
It was kind of like that.
But I also knew it was foreign.
And I got the
impression that there
was this stuff in
the air, and that it
was very-- I'd say toxic,
describing it today.
And I came across
a person in there,
and they were in the process of
choking to death on this stuff.
And that was unsettling.
That disturbed me quite a bit.
Because it was almost as
if I could kind of have
that experience with them,
and not pleasant all.
>>NOORY: They may have died.
Who knows?
>>SMITH: I think
probably did, actually.
That was my final conclusion,
that they probably did.
Now fortunately, the
remote viewing methodology
we had been taught--
we were also
taught ways to deal with
these kind of stressful kind
of emotional encounters
that we might have.
And so it's not something
that traumatized me
for life or anything.
But it did disturb
me at the time.
And I can recall how
that felt back then.
And so that's is
one of the examples.
>>NOORY: Is remote viewing
more powerful in real time,
or does it matter?
>>SMITH: So that's
actually a trick question,
and you don't even realize it.
>>NOORY: Maybe I did.
>>SMITH: The reason
is, technically,
if you consider the way
human consciousness works,
there is no present to
human consciousness.
Because we have this,
oh, roughly tenth
of a second consciousness window
between when something happens
and when we
recognize it happens.
So what we do is remote view
either the very recent past,
which we interpret
as the present,
or a distanter past,
which is in the past.
So in a sense,
it's equally-- it's
almost the same remote
viewing present as it is past.
And so they're pretty much
the same, accuracy wise.
Where the accuracy
level falls off
is where you try to remote
view into the future.
And there it becomes
really hit or miss,
except for one particular
modality, which
we can talk about later.
But it becomes very hit or miss
where they're actually going
to describe an actual future
outcome or just something that
could have happened, but didn't.
>>NOORY: You just brought up
something that was interesting,
that we see things
in a nanosecond
after it's occurred
with the real eyes.
Are we looking at an
event that has already
happened by the time it
registers in our brain,
even it may be a minute
part of a second,
but it's already done by
the time it gets to us?
>>SMITH: So the way the
human perceptual system works
is that the eyes actually
pick it up real time.
I mean, it's electromagnetic
radiation-- transmission time
between me and you
is so short that it's
essentially instantaneous.
>>NOORY: But am I seeing with
my eyes or also my brain?
>>SMITH: But it's your
brain that actually picks up
that, processes it, and
tells you what it is
and what it means.
And that's what takes the time.
So the sensory detection
happens instantly.
The sensory
processing is delayed.
So it's kind of like in a
sports event, where there's
an eight-second delay, or
whatever it is, you know,
so that, if something
happens, they
can go to commercial
real quick or something.
>>NOORY: No wonder
when I go to hug
some woman I missed
her by three feet.
>>SMITH: She was in a hurry.
>>NOORY: She already moved.
>>SMITH: Well, the fact
is that's why people can--
you hear these stories
in haunting literature,
and life after death stuff
where people are dead,
but they don't
know they're dead.
Like they might be
in a car accident,
and then people
find they're ghosts,
and say, well, the
ghost says-- in some
of the near-death
literature, they
encounter people who are dead,
but don't know they're dead.
It's because if you get killed
before the brain can process
the fact that you have died,
under the presumption, which
I fully believe, that
consciousness continues
after death, you can actually
be dead and not even know it.
>>NOORY: That's true.
That is true.
>>SMITH: Yeah
>>NOORY: When people
are remote viewing,
are they also remote viewing
in their dream state?
Or is that precognition?
>>SMITH: No, I mean, there are
a lot of precognitive dreams.
People talk about-- in fact, my
late web mistress, the person
who put up my
website, unfortunately
passed away a couple years back.
>>NOORY: I'm sorry to hear that.
>>SMITH: But she told me
about a dream her brother had,
in which he had
been driving to work
in this dream, the
normal route he took,
and he came to the intersection,
and a car ran a red light,
and smashed into him.
>>NOORY: I've had one of those.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>NOORY: We all have.
>>SMITH: Well, the next day,
when he was on the road,
he came to that intersection,
and he remembered the dream.
And so he just paused.
He slowed down, even though
the light was in his favor.
And just as he
slowed down, a car
went barreling
through the red light.
If he had not done that,
if he had not hesitated,
he'd have been t-boned.
So that's a precognitive dream.
But there's actually been
a fair amount of research
of clairvoyance, or remote
viewing, if you will,
in a dream state.
And it seems that you can also
do present-time remote viewing
in that environment, as well.
>>NOORY: You started
this with the military.
That's how you got into
this, and you got into it
in a big way.
And then the military all of a
sudden just disbanded the unit.
Why did they do that?
>>SMITH: Well, it looked
to the civilian population,
the public, that it was
sudden, but it wasn't.
One of the big problems
with anything in government
that's controversial is
that you'll have supporters
and you'll have detractors.
And that was the history
of the remote viewing
program from when it first
started in 1972, all the way
up to when it
ended in late 1995,
is that when the
supporters had the power,
the program prospered.
And when they didn't, and
the detractors had the power,
then it didn't.
>>NOORY: Then it died.
>>SMITH: And the
fact of the matter
is, I mean, at its probably
highest point politically,
there were five
congressman-- I'm sorry,
five senators and a number of
congressman, at least-- these
are the ones I know
about-- who are
very much in support
of the program.
And so it prospered
during that period.
But those guys retired,
died, went away.
A lot of the generals
that were in support of it
got forced out, whatever.
And so when it came into
the mid-90s, first of all,
there was a lot of attrition.
Viewers were taken away
and weren't replaced,
because the managers wanted
to try and kill the program,
in spite of the
senatorial interest.
And then finally, the
CIA director, at time
it was transferred from the
Defense Intelligence Agency
to the CIA, was one
of those guys that
just wouldn't have
anything to do with it.
He would kick people
out of his office
if they even brought
the topic up.
And so consequently, it was
in a very harsh environment.
And that was the point
it got terminated.
>>NOORY: Did we do the
program because the Soviets
were doing it?
>>SMITH: That was
originally the impetus.
The CIA had been, of
course, monitoring
what the Soviets were up to.
And they discovered
the Soviets were
pursuing what we would
call parapsychology
and spending literally hundreds
of millions of dollars on it--
much more money than
we ever spent on it.
And the CIA knew that the
Soviets didn't do anything
that they didn't hope to have
some kind of a return on.
So they had to investigate it to
make sure it wasn't actually--
they didn't believe in it.
The CIA, in general,
didn't believe in ESP.
But the Soviets apparently did,
and they needed to know why.
And so that's what
got the program going.
But later on, we discovered
it did have utility.
Because originally it was kind
of a proof of principle thing--
OK, we're going to do what we
think the Soviets are doing
and see if it works.
When it did work, well,
heck, if it works,
why do we waste it just testing?
Let's go ahead and use it.
>>NOORY: Let's use it.
>>SMITH: Yeah
>>NOORY: Tha't
right, utilize it.
>>SMITH: And so at that
point, it became valuable
and, indeed, got used
for quite a while.
>>NOORY: How do we know the
Russians aren't still doing it?
>>SMITH: Well, as far
as I know, we don't.
>>NOORY: So they could be.
>>SMITH: They could be.
>>NOORY: Or the Chinese.
>>SMITH: Evidence seems
indicate they're probably not,
because particularly after
the Cold War closed down,
they were really cash starved.
And they weren't
doing anything that
wasn't absolutely essential.
And the evidence is
that they did close down
all that research at that time.
Have they picked
it back up again?
I don't know.
There is a scientist in
the remote viewing field,
American scientist
named Ed May, who's
done some really great
work over the years.
And he's actually been involved
with the former members
of that Russian
program and whoever
else is involved in it today.
And he's promising to come out
with some books, actually, that
will talk about the
Russian side of it.
So I'm anxious to see
what comes of that.
>>NOORY: Paul, I
had the opportunity
to see you sometime back at the
International Remote Viewing
Association conference
dedicated to remote viewing.
I find that fascinating
all by itself.
It's an organized
group of people.
How big is it?
>>SMITH: Well, I am not
sure on the membership,
because I am not in
the presidency anymore,
but I think we probably have
400 or 500 official formal--
>>NOORY: But it's--
>>SMITH: --members.
>>NOORY: --big
>>SMITH: Yeah, it's good sized.
Yeah.
And then we have a whole
bunch more interested people,
who come to the conferences and
participate in the discussion
groups, and things like that.
So it's a pretty good
size organization
for what might be considered a
kind of small sort of interest
in the parapsychology field.
I think one of the reasons it
is of such interest in the world
is because, first
of all, it does
have practical applications.
But more interestingly
is the military did it,
and people recognize military
does things that work.
Military doesn't care about the
politics, generally speaking.
The military doesn't care
so much about the science
if it does work.
And the military used
it for, if you add up
the time it was in the
intelligence community, 23
years.
So that's a pretty good
validation of something
that otherwise is
kind of squishy-- ESP,
we talk about all those
problems in general ESP.
But here's something
that actually you
can repeat in remote viewing.
And again, you don't
repeat it all the time,
but there are other
phenomenon in science
you don't repeat every time.
But you can repeat
it often enough
that you know that it does work.
And so I think
that's the reason why
it has so much
interest in the world.
>>NOORY: If you're at home
watching this program right
now, Paul, somebody's
probably saying,
hey, so maybe I should
dabble in remote viewing.
What's the benefit to
somebody to do this?
>>SMITH: Well we
talked about one,
where it enhances intuition
in just normal everyday life.
Even if you're not
remote viewing,
your intuition has been
improved in normal cases.
Of course, it's a
self-validating thing,
which a lot of
people appreciate.
Here's something
that tells me, yes, I
am more than my physical body.
I'm not just this meat machine
that science says I am.
But you can use it in
a number of other ways.
Investment is probably one of
the biggest popular things now.
>>NOORY: How would that work?
>>SMITH: Well,
what they do is use
a thing called associative
remote viewing.
It's a way of applying remote
viewing to actually predict
the outcome of a
future event that
has a number of different
possible outcomes.
So the prime example
is sports betting,
and it often is used in that.
So you want to know if the
Longhorns or A&M are going
to win the football game
becasue you want to bet on it.
>>NOORY: And what the point
spread's going to be, right?
>>SMITH: Well, you have
to figure that in, too.
>>NOORY: That's a bit tougher.
>>SMITH: But we'll keep
it simple for this one.
Win or lose, that's all we're
worried about right now.
You want to know, because you
want to bet on the game, right?
So what you do, well, if
you ask a remote viewer,
OK, A&M and UT
are going to play,
and we want you to tell us
which one is going to win,
it won't be any
better than chance.
It essentially will
amount to a guess,
because they're consciously
choosing between two things.
Well, what you want to
do is try and leverage
the subconscious processing
that isn't biased
by this conscious mental noise
stuff that we talked about.
So what you do is you take
advantage of the remote viewing
thing, and you tell
a remote viewer,
OK, I'm going to show you
an object in the future.
And I want you to
describe, right now,
what that object is going to be.
Now they're not
going to tell you.
So let's say you pick a
pencil and a hamburger
as your two objects.
And I'll explain how
this works in a second.
They're not going to tell
you, if you show them
a hamburger, that
it's a hamburger.
What they'll say instead
is, well, there's
something round and fluffy and
smells like food, or something
like that, or smells like meat.
>>NOORY: It won't get specific.
>>SMITH: Yeah, at
least they shouldn't,
because usually
they're wrong when
you start putting names to it.
But they'll describe it,
and they'll describe it
accurately enough so
you know it wasn't
the pencil you gave them.
Now how this works is you decide
that the hamburger is going to,
for example, stand for
UT winning the game.
And the pencil's
going to stand for--
>>NOORY: Michigan State.
>>SMITH: No, we're going Aggies.
We're going to keep this.
>>NOORY: You're going to stay.
>>SMITH: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: I wonder
where you're from.
>>SMITH: Texas Aggies.
Yeah, that's right.
So A&M-- so one's
for the Longhorns,
one's for A&M, right,
the pencil for A&M.
And so you wait and see
what happens in the game.
And UT wins, we'll assume,
if we're not biased here.
UT wins.
And so that
determines that you're
going to show the viewer
that hamburger after the game
is over.
And maybe the day
after the game's over,
you have an appointment and
you say, OK, Mr. Remote Viewer,
this is the object
you remote viewed.
Now essentially
what you're doing
is sending a signal from
the future to the past.
And that's one way
of looking at this.
So you're telling the
viewer from the future which
object they're
going to be seeing.
But the game determines
which object you show.
And so, if the viewer
describes a hamburger,
say, OK, that's a hamburger.
That means UT's going to win.
So you bet on UT
before the game.
Then after the game, you have to
show the viewer that hamburger,
because that completes the loop.
>>NOORY: That's the cycle.
>>SMITH: That's the information.
That's right.
And if, for example,
A&M wins, you've
got to show them the pencil,
and then the viewer's wrong.
I mean that's the one
out of three cases
where the viewer gets it wrong.
But many ARV
repetitions over time
have shown that it's
between 60 and 80% accurate,
which means if you--
>>NOORY: That's pretty good.
>>SMITH: It's very good, if
you're on a 50-50 proposition,
and you're trying
to break the bank.
And you do have to
be careful if you're
doing stocks, for example.
You can have, like, 10 wins
in a row, but that 11th loss--
>>NOORY: Could kill you.
>>SMITH: --could kill you if
it's a big enough loss, right?
So you've got to be careful.
And point spread
in sports betting
is something you have
to allow for, as well.
There are ways to do it, but
it gets probably too technical
for this.
>>NOORY: I know Russell
Targ, a great remote viewer,
had a group that worked on
commodities and futures,
and apparently he did
very well with that.
>>SMITH: Yes.
And in fact, my son, at
the University of Colorado,
he took a class from
a professor there,
Garret Moddal, who was
a physics professor.
He has a class in
parapsychology.
They don't call it that,
but that's what it is.
And for a class
project, they did
an associative remote
viewing experiment
against the Dow Jones average,
one of the Dow Jones averages.
And there's an auditor
there who happened
to be a dotcom millionaire, and
he kicked in 10K of seed money.
By the time they
were done, they had
made seven correct
predictions in a row,
and they had turned
that 10K into $27,000.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
Not bad,
>>SMITH: And that was
a science experiment.
>>NOORY: Not bad.
It worked.
How can you use remote viewing
in police applications?
>>SMITH: There's a
lot of similarity
between what we had to do
in the military program
and what police need to do.
And that is, like, maybe
find missing people,
maybe find who did it when,
maybe find out what happened,
maybe find out what's
going to happen,
all those very similar things.
And so oftentimes remote
viewers can benefit the police
in answering any one of
those particular questions.
I've had some experiences with
folks that I've worked with.
One case that we were asked to
find a missing body-- the story
is interesting.
A police sergeant was
actually the murderer.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
And he had actually--
>>NOORY: And he
was on the force?
>>SMITH: He was on the
force when he did it.
He was trying to cover up
another crime that the guy had
witnessed that the
officer had committed.
>>NOORY: He killed him because
of a cover-up on a crime?
>>SMITH: Yes.
He was trying to
cover up a crime.
And they figured out he did it.
They had enough evidence to
get him on second degree,
but they wanted to get him
on first degree murder,
because I mean, this
is a police officer.
You can't tolerate
that kind of thing.
But they couldn't find the body.
Unless they found the
body, they would have to--
>>NOORY: Go with second.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
And so we were approached
and asked to try and find it.
And we provided a very
accurate description
of where the body was.
In fact--
>>NOORY: You didn't know the
nuances of the case right?
>>SMITH: I did, but
I was managing it.
The viewers did not.
They didn't even know they
were looking for a body.
They had to figure
that out as they're
going through the process.
And so our information,
actually, was quite accurate.
But ironically-- and this is
one of those non-coincidences
that occur.
At the exact-- literally,
at the exact minute
that the team of deputies were
going to take our information
and go out, and try and match
it to a location in the county
they were working in, three
hikers came across the body.
And the downside was
we don't get the credit
as a remote viewing win.
I think it would have been.
>>NOORY: It would have been.
>>SMITH: But the upside
was that the deputy was
able to go to the location
with our information
and, with a digital
camera, document everything
that we had reported, and
compare it and contrast it.
>>NOORY: And it was right there.
>>SMITH: It was awesome.
It was an excellent result.
>>NOORY: Are three remote
viewers better than one
when you're doing something?
>>SMITH: The answer is maybe.
Again, because
remote viewing, there
are these parameters
that we don't really
understand when it works
and when it doesn't work.
Sometimes one viewer
will get it right
and two viewers
will get it wrong.
Or if you have five,
one will get it right,
and the other four
will get it wrong.
>>NOORY: And how do
you know what's right
and what's wrong at that time?
>>SMITH: That's the trick.
I'll maybe talk
about it in a second.
But more often
than not, there'll
be correlation
between the three,
or the five, or however
many you're using,
that will allow you
to come up with kind
of a Venn diagram
of what's accurate.
And so we call it consensus
scoring, essentially.
And when you do
that, usually that
enhances the accuracy
of the results.
But it doesn't always.
How you resolve it when you
don't get that kind of a match?
In the intelligence
world, we never
did anything in an
intelligence vacuum.
You usually got as many
sources involved as you could,
and as many disciplines
involved as you could,
so you had a kind of
a intelligence context
that you could take your
information and compare it.
And in that situation,
if the two viewers
are completely out of line and
couldn't possibly be accurate,
but the other one was kind
of right in the ballpark,
and it agreed, and it cohered
with the other information,
then you could trust that
guy's information-- or girl.
Actually we had many
women viewers, as well.
>>NOORY: During
9/11, my daughter
would tell me about
a dream she had
of walking through the
streets of a big city
with tons of dust
falling on her.
And she said, Dad, it
was like six inches deep.
But I remember
looking up in the sky
and it was coming
down like snowflakes.
She clearly described 9/11
and what was happening.
Of course, who knew that?
We didn't.
Was that remote viewing?
Or was it a precognitive dream?
>>SMITH: What's the difference?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
It's the same.
>>SMITH: Again, it's the same
underlying mechanism, I think,
that drives it all.
It just expresses itself
in different modes
through human consciousness.
>>NOORY: What
could she have done
to push it a little
further, to get a little bit
more information so we could
realize what was going on?
I mean, we thought-- the both of
us thought Yellowstone blew up,
and the Caldera
sprinkled all that.
>>SMITH: Or she'd watched
some movie or something.
>>NOORY: Nobody ever
would have thought
about planes smashing
into a building.
>>SMITH: So to answer the first
question, it's hard to say.
I'm not an expert in dream ESP.
But there have
been some attempts
to try and expand on what
you experienced in one dream
the next night in
a further dream
by you saying, OK, now I want
to go back and revisit this.
What can I come up with?
>>NOORY: What can I
do when I see this?
>>SMITH: That
might be some help.
But what's interesting here,
I think, in this story,
is it shows how
difficult precognition
is to do something
with, in most cases.
Because you don't
get an exact time.
You often don't
get an exact place.
I mean, this guy's
car being smashed
in the intersection,
that's a rare example where
it's identifiable.
In this case, big city--
where in the world?
>>NOORY: What is it?
>>SMITH: Ash raining down, where
does that come from, right?
I have absolutely no doubt that
she got a real signal on this.
And a number of people did,
actually, it's surprising.
>>NOORY: And when we saw the
actual television footage
of that stuff falling down--
>>SMITH: There she
goes, through feedback.
>>NOORY: --we knew
right away what it was.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
That must've been astonishing.
>>NOORY: To find out first,
and maybe you can warn people
or help people--
>>SMITH: Well, and that, of
course, is the challenge.
I had my own remote
viewing experience,
had a similar
situation like this,
although it was
more intentional.
We had this mode of applying
remote viewing, which
we called "open search."
The idea was that you kind
of went out into the universe
to see what was important
for the Department of Defense
to find out about, that may
happen in the next few days.
And usually it wasn't
hugely successful,
but sometimes it was.
And so I, unbeknownst to me,
because of course I was not
supposed to know what the target
was, we did an open search one
day, went over to the
operations building,
and the monitor sits down.
An old friend, Ed Dames, sits
down and says, OK, here's the--
>>NOORY: Dr. Doom.
>>SMITH: Dr, Doom, yeah.
And we start doing the
session, and my impression
is-- I'm going to summarize
here very briefly,
but I got the impression
of a warship sailing
through a closed body of water
that was bounded on all sides
by sand.
And it was at night, and
then off in the distance,
there was this aircraft.
In the process of things--
I'm cutting a lot of detail--
it dropped these tubular
things with little wings
on it that made kind of
guttural roaring sounds.
>>NOORY: Torpedos.
>>SMITH: And they rushed,
sailed-- they flew around,
and then somehow or other came
together with this warship.
And the warship--
smoke and flame,
and it leans to one side,
and there's people yelling,
and there's fire hoses on
the deck, and all this stuff.
And the airplane
seemed to be based
on the shore of
this body of water,
and under control of people
in a-- I interpreted it
as a third-world city, because
it had a lot of flat roofs,
kind of barren landscape,
domestic animals
in the streets,
and the people who
are controlling it
were military, but kind
of unprofessional in
the way they did things.
And Ed, at this point, who'd
been expecting something else,
he said, well, you're off.
We'll just leave it there.
That's OK.
No one's right all
the time on this.
And it was a weekend.
We went home for the weekend.
And on Monday morning, I get
this call from Skip Atwater.
He says, Paul, where's that
session you did on Friday?
I said it's in my safe
drawer, but why do you care?
I mean, I was off.
He said, you haven't looked
at the papers this morning,
have you?
I said, no.
So I go open up The
Washington Post-- US destroyer
hit by Exocet missile
in the Persian Gulf.
And it was exactly my remote
viewing session, exactly.
So that was great.
I wrote up a report.
It went up-- I don't how far
up the channel, probably.
I wouldn't by
surprised if it made it
to the Secretary of Defense.
>>NOORY: Was that the
Iranians who did that?
>>SMITH: It was the Iraqis--
>>NOORY: You're right.
>>SMITH: --who we were
supposedly friends
with at the time.
They apologized.
>>NOORY: They didn't
know it was our ship.
>>SMITH: It was a mistake.
And it may have been.
I'm not going to judge the
geopolitics on this thing.
But whatever the case was,
it caused us to reflect,
because we thought I was off.
So we just stuffed
it away in a drawer.
We didn't send it up the chain.
No one had the information.
They never acted on it.
Could they have stopped the
situation from happening?
Probably.
>>NOORY: Maybe.
>>SMITH: They would've
said, well, this
matches a number of
settings around the world.
We'll just put
everybody on alert,
and the ships would have its
air defense radars and stuff up.
The aircraft
would've detected it,
probably wouldn't have fired,
and would've gone home, right?
The ship was totally
really unprepared for it.
But then, of course, then that
event wouldn't have happened,
and we would have been wrong.
And so the next
time we said, well,
there's going to be an event,
they'll say, oh, those guys.
They were wrong last time,
they're going to be wrong
this time, too.
And then maybe it
would have happened.
So in a way, we would
have prevented one event,
but very likely
something similar
would have occurred in the
future, in spite of that.
So there's a lot of
interesting ramifications
to precognition as a tool.
There are some
ways it's valuable,
in this ARV situation
I'm talking about,
which is clearly precognition.
But there's other times when
I don't know how useful it is.
>>NOORY: Some
people will say, why
haven't we used remote viewing?
Why didn't we use it to
find Osama bin Laden?
And why didn't we do this?
Why didn't we do that?
How do you answer that?
>>SMITH: Well, first off,
how do you know we didn't?
>>NOORY: We don't.
We don't.
>>SMITH: We don't know that.
The second thing is that there
are some intelligence questions
that are very hard for
remote viewing to respond to.
Finding Osama bin Laden
was a good example.
And there were
remote viewers who
tried to pinpoint
Osama bin Laden.
But the first problem
is they were not
military remote viewers, and
so getting that information
into the system where anyone
would take it seriously--
>>NOORY: Almost impossible.
>>SMITH: Almost impossible--
because there's so much
noise out there.
Everybody that is a psychic
or wants to be a psychic
is sending stuff in, and it
mostly ends up in the garbage,
right.
The second problem is,
though, that remote viewing,
I think I mentioned, is a
descriptive methodology.
So you can't give
them lat/longs--
latitude, longitude.
You can't give them
a street address.
All you can do is
describe the setting.
So a remote viewer
might say, oh, yeah.
I've got this guy
with a beard and he's
sitting in this
long, funny room,
and it's really long, really
narrow, rocky walls, carpet
on the floor, and
guys with guns.
If you go outside
this room, you're
in a bunch of barren mountains.
And the analyst is going to
say, that's exactly right.
Now where is he?
Well, the viewer's going to say,
you idiot, I just told you--
>>NOORY: I don't know.
>>SMITH: --where he is.
He said he's in this room in
a bunch of barren mountains.
What more do you want to know?
Well, so what I say is a
remote viewer can find things,
but he can't
necessarily locate them.
>>NOORY: Right.
If you see, in a remote
viewing, a car go by,
and you spot the license
plate, and it says 2016 on it.
Does that work?
Is that useful?
>>SMITH: Well, that
would be awesome
if you could, but actually, no.
>>NOORY: It doesn't
happen like that.
>>SMITH: No, remote
viewers rarely, if ever,
can pick up numbers or letters.
And there's a very
obvious reason for that.
>>NOORY: Or calendars.
>>SMITH: Or
calendars, any of that
stuff-- there's a very
obvious reason for that.
And it's because of this
right brain, left brain split.
The right brain
is often optimized
for description,
sensory experience,
global holistic perception.
The left brain is optimized
for linear approaches,
like language, like writing,
like all that stuff.
And the left brain is also
the source of mental noise.
And so when you're trying to
get them working together,
you run into trouble.
>>NOORY: It's almost impossible.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
>>NOORY: But what a tool,
what an amazing tool.
>>SMITH: Within its parameters,
it is really, really useful.
>>NOORY: So would you
recommend remote viewing
to just about anybody?
>>SMITH: I would
recommend it to anyone
who feels like they're
open-minded enough
to deal with it.
There are people
who it freaks out.
>>NOORY: Are children good?
>>SMITH: Children-- there's an
interesting debate about this.
People think children would be
better because they have fewer
preconceived ideas about
the universe than adults do.
But on the other hand, they
also have less to work with.
You still need to have
a certain installed--
>>NOORY: You have--
>>SMITH: --knowldedge base.
>>NOORY: --a
foundation of stuff.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
So I think it's a mixed bag.
I did get my kids
to-- I tried to get
them to dowse the
lottery when they
were little under that premise.
So we would go over
to the ops building,
and I'd made this little
chart, and I'd tell them, OK, I
want you dowse where the
Reese's Peanut Butter
Cups are going to be tomorrow.
And they would put the Reese's
Cups they had on the squares
where they thought
they would be.
And then if they were
right the next day,
they would get to keep the
ones they were right about.
The most we got right were four.
But it was pretty good.
It turns out that would
have been in the money,
but I didn't
understand the system.
>>NOORY: Dowsing works.
I've used it a lot.
It's a great tool.
It's something that's deep
within the psyche, I think.
But it's that tapping in
again, Paul, that works.
"Reading the Enemy's Mind"
with Paul Smith-- Paul,
if people want more
information about you,
what's the best place?
>>SMITH: Well, I suggest my
website, which is rviewer.com.
That's the letter R,
and the word viewer.
So R-V-I-E-W-E-R dot com.
>>NOORY: Does remote
viewing keep you healthier,
in a state of mind, physically?
>>SMITH: Well, more
research to be done,
but my belief is that it
does, because first of all,
it improves your
attitude about yourself.
It improves your
attitude about life.
It improves your attitude and
understanding of the universe.
I mean, it seems kind
of depressing to me,
if it were the case, that
all we are these, as I said,
meat machines that live
for 70 years, and we die,
and that's all there
is to us, right?
But if that's the
way the universe is,
you'd have to accept that.
But this is evidence it's not.
This is evidence
that actually we
are more than that, that
we do have this ability
to transcend the boundaries
of the physical universe,
the boundaries of our physical
brains-- which is, I think,
strong evidence
that we are more,
that we are persisted
as entities, identities
that-- in other
words, essentially
I'm talking about
life after death,
a continuity of
human consciousness.
I think remote viewing is very
strong evidence for that, which
is maybe one of the reasons
why some scientists want
to reject it is
because that messes
with their view of the universe.
And they don't want to
upset the apple cart.
And so they don't
like to accept any
of this kind of the
evidence of ESP,
because it does seem
to contradict what
their models of the
universe predict.
>>NOORY: Paul, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
Appreciate it.
>>SMITH: You are welcome.
Thank you very much, George.
>>NOORY: Paul Smith,
remote viewer.
And you, that couple at home
watching the program right now,
both of you in
those red sweaters?
Take your feet off the table.
I'm George Noory, and this
has been "Beyond Belief."